                             Jimm - Mobile Messaging
                       Version ###VERSION### - released ###DATE###
                         <http://jimm.sourceforge.net/>

================================================================================
README
________________________________________________________________________________
ABOUT

Jimm is a native ICQ clone for Java 2 Platform Micro Edition (J2ME), Mobile
Information Device Profile (MIDP) 1.0 and 2.0 . It supports the new v8 protocol,
former protocols are not supported.

Jimm is probably the most lightweight ICQ clone available, so please do not
expect the same features your favourite desktop client has. Currently, Jimm has
the following features:

  *  Request and read the server side contact list
  *  Send plain messages (type 1 and 2)
  *  Receive plain messages (type 1, 2 and 4, and offline messages)
  *  Send URL messages (type 4)
  *  Receive URL messages (type 1, 2 and 4, and offline messages)
  *  Send file transfer messages and send files (type 2 and direct connection)
  *  Set your status (away, n/a, etc.)
  *  Receive status updates (user is away, n/a, etc.)
  *  Request information about other users
  *  Remove users from the server side contact list
  *  Search for users
  *  Add users to the server side contact list
  *  Answer authorization requests
  *  Multilingual user interface

________________________________________________________________________________
PACKAGE CONTENTS

  |- README (this file)
  |- CHANGES (change log)
  |- COPYING (license)
  |- build.xml (Apache Ant buildfile)
  |- bin
  |   |- DEFAULT
  |   |   '- [List of included languages]
  |   |        |- Jimm.jar (obfuscated Java archive)
  |   |        '- Jimm.jad (archive descriptor)
  |   |- MIDP2
  |   |   '- [List of included languages]
  |   |        |- Jimm.jar (obfusc. Java archive, MIDP2 compatible mobiles only)
  |   |        '- Jimm.jad (archive descriptor, MIDP2 compatible mobiles only)
  |   |- RIM
  |   |   '- [List of included languages]
  |   |        |- Jimm.jar (obfuscated Java archive, RIM mobiles only)
  |   |        '- Jimm.jad (archive descriptor, RIM mobiles only)
  |   '- SIEMENS
  |       '- [List of included languages]
  |            |- Jimm.jar (obfuscated Java archive, Siemens mobiles only)
  |            '- Jimm.jad (archive descriptor, Siemens mobiles only)
  |- res
  |   |- MANIFEST.MF
  |   '- [Target]
  |        '- [Target-specific resources]
  |- src
  |   '- [Source tree]
  '- util
      |- build-release.xml (Apache Ant release buildfile)
      |- sijapp (Simple Java PreProcessor)
      '- jarsizetask (JarSizeTask)

________________________________________________________________________________
HOW TO INSTALL

Copy Jimm.jad and Jimm.jar (found inside the bin directory) to your mobile
phone. If you have a Siemens 55 series mobile (e.g. S55, M55), use the files
found inside the bin/SIEMENS directory. If you have a phone which is capable of
running MIDP2 applications (e.g. Siemens XX65 and above), use the files found
inside the bin/MIDP2 directory. For Blackberry handhelds please use the bin/RIM
directory. Follow the instructions in your mobile phone manual to start the Java
application.

At first start-up, select 'Options' and set your UIN and password. The default
values for the ICQ server host and port should be okay. Option values are
automatically saved and loaded on subsequent start-ups.

You can also download Jimm.jad and Jimm.jar via WAP. Open the following URL with
your WAP device and select the desired version:
<http://jimm.sourceforge.net/download/>

________________________________________________________________________________
KNOWN BUGS

On Siemens S55 mobiles there are the following graphical errors:

  * In the ICQ Flowers if there is an active chat
  * In the chat histroy the name is shifted left
    (Both depend on errors on the S55 and they might be fixed by Siemens in
    upcoming firmware releases)
  * On devices with heap memory bellow 300kb (e.g. Siemens S55) Jimm will only
    run stable with less than 40 contacts.
  * The background of the flowers if there is an active chat is no longer
    transparent.

On Nokia 6230 with FW > 3.15 you have to set the "Delay between connections" in
the "Network" menu in the "Options section" to a value above 4 seconds at least.

________________________________________________________________________________
HOW TO BUILD

Jimm uses Apache Ant for building. You can download Apache Ant from
<http://ant.apache.org/>. Follow the instructions in the Apache Ant manual to
install Apache Ant.

You also must have a Java 2 Platform Standard Edition (J2SE) SDK. Depending on
the selected target you also need the following:

  * DEFAULT target: J2ME Wireless Toolkit 2.2
      <http://java.sun.com/j2me/>
  * MIDP2 target: J2ME Wireless Toolkit 2.2
      <http://java.sun.com/j2me/>
  * RIM target: Latest version of the Blackberry SDK
      <http://www.blackberry.com/developers/>
  * SIEMENS target: Latest version of the Siemens Mobility Toolkit (SMTK)
      <http://communication-market.siemens.de/>
		
By default, class files are obfuscated using ProGuard to reduce bytecode size.
You can download ProGuard from <http://proguard.sourceforge.net/>. Follow the
instructions in the ProGuard manual to install ProGuard. Jimm requires ProGuard
3.1 or later.

At first, open the Apache ant buildfile (build.xml) and change the properties in
the configuration/customization section. You can use both the slash and the
backslash for separating path components.

To build Jimm, just type 'ant' or 'ant dist'. To disable class file obfuscation,
add '-Dskip-obfuscate=1' to the before mentioned command. If everything goes
well, look at the newly created directory dist/bin for Jimm.jar and Jimm.jad
files.

To clean the distribution, type 'ant clean'.

________________________________________________________________________________
PERFORMANCE

Jimm takes about 20 seconds to load on a Siemens S55 mobile phone. Logging into
ICQ again takes about 20 seconds. These will vary depending on your mobile phone
processor and memory performance, bandwidth and contact list size. Because of
performance limitations of most J2ME devices, it is strongly recommended to
reduce your contact list size to 50 contacts.

Delays at message sending/receiving are negligible and can be ignored.

Currently, Jimm requires about 250 KB of RAM, depending on the size of your
contact list, and the activity on the ICQ network. Jimm also requires support
for socket (TCP/IP) connections, which *is not* required by MIDP 1.0 to be
standard-compliant but some vendor implementations include. Check your mobile
phone manual.

________________________________________________________________________________
NETWORK CONSUMPTION

The following information, as all other information in this file and all
other files included in this Jimm distribution, ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT
WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. Please see the file COPYING in the Jimm distribution for
further details.

Jimm establishes a single TCP connection to login.icq.com:5190 (by default).
This connection is held open until you choose to disconnect or a critical error
occurs.

Logging into ICQ produces about 5 KB network traffic, excluding your server-side
contact list. The contact list is locally cached, and only requested again from
the server if the cache is out of date.

There is also some network traffic while staying online, even when you don't
send or receive any instant messages. Jimm sends a Keepalive packet every 120
seconds, which includes 6 bytes payload. This can be disabled. Each time one of
your buddies changes status, you'll receive at least a notification and,
depending on the ICQ client you buddy uses, some capability messages.

Tip 1: Reduce your contact list size to save network traffic.
Tip 2: Check the network consumption regularly.

________________________________________________________________________________
GET INVOLVED

Give feedback: <http://jimm.sourceforge.net/forum/>
Contr. code and documentation patches: <http://sourceforge.net/projects/jimm/>

________________________________________________________________________________
LICENSING

For licensing and copyright information, please see the file COPYING in the
Jimm distribution.

________________________________________________________________________________
DISCLAIMER

Jimm is not affiliated with or endorsed by ICQ Inc. All trademarks belong to
their respective owners.

________________________________________________________________________________
CREDITS

Core development team:
  *  Manuel Linsmayer <linsmayer at users.sourceforge.net>
  *  Andreas Rossbacher <rossi771 at users.sourceforge.net>
  *  Artyomov Denis <arty333 at users.sourceforge.net>

Contributors:
  *  Sergey Mymrikov (Contact status and program icons)
  *  Spassky Alexander (Type-2 Message support)
  *  Mathias Huelsbusch (Mathematical art used for splash screen)
  *  Andrey B. Ivlev (Russian translation, Cyrillic character support)
  *  Sergey Chernov (Russian translation, Cyrillic character support)
  *  David Ethell (RIM sound and vibra support)
  *  Alexei Solonets (Russian translation)
  *  Miloslav Vorlieek (Czech translation)
  *  Martin Bjoerkman (Swedish translation)
  *  Linas Gricius (Lithuanian translation)
  *  Mario B. Napoli (Italian translation)
  *  Urukalo Milan (Serbian translation)
  *  Guy Aroshas (Hebrew translation)
  *  Ivaylo Donchev (Bulgarian translation)
